GWEN IFILL: We return now to
North Korea's
bombshell claims today.
Siegfried Hecker is former
director of Los
Alamos National Laboratory, and
he now teaches
at Stanford University. He has
visited North
Korea and its nuclear facilities
seven times.
And Wendy Sherman was
undersecretary of state
for political affairs during the
Obama administration.
During the Clinton
administration, she was
a State Department official
focused on North
Korea. And she now advises the
Hillary Clinton
campaign.
Wendy Sherman, how much of a
threat is this
latest test?
WENDY SHERMAN, Former U.S.
Undersecretary
of State for Political Affairs:
Well, I think
the fact that North Korea has
now conducted
a fourth nuclear test is of
concern.
I agree with the White House's
assessment,
at least so far -- and I will be
glad to hear
what Mr. Hecker has to say --
that this isn't
a hydrogen test, but,
nonetheless, four nuclear
tests is a concern to us.
GWEN IFILL: So, the fact of the
test is more
concerning to you than the type
of test?
WENDY SHERMAN: Well, no. Had it
been a hydrogen
bomb -- and, of course, it will
still be several
days before we know that for
sure -- that
is much, much, much more
powerful.
And, of course, we're also
concerned about
miniaturization of the weapon,
so that it
might be carried on a weapon to
South Korea,
or Japan or even to the United
States. So,
I this is an acceleration and
escalation by
North Korea. And I think that
the United States
and the world community need to
act with resolve.
GWEN IFILL: Siegfried Hecker,
tell us, what
exactly is possible for North
Korea to have
pulled off in this case?
SIEGFRIED HECKER, Former
Director, Los Alamos
National Laboratory: Well, it's
not clear
exactly what they did.
As Ms. Sherman pointed out, they
did another
nuclear test. And, actually, my
greatest concern
is that they did the fourth
nuclear test.
With that nuclear test, they
clearly achieved
greater sophistication, in most
likelihood
meaning being able to make the
bomb smaller,
lighter, and, therefore, have
greater reach,
if they're able to get them on a
missile.
Whether it was a hydrogen test
or not, we
don't know. My sense is, we will
probably
never really know. So far, from
what is the
information that's there, it
appears the size
of the blast, in other words,
the power from
the seismic signal that can be
measured, it's
about the same level as the
third nuclear
test in 2013, which we put at
the level of
approximately a Hiroshima bomb.
That's saying
10 to 15 kilotons.
Now, whether it actually
achieved the sophistication
of going to a fusion bomb --
that is, the
normal bombs are fission or
atomic bombs -- the
fusion or hydrogen bomb, that is
a very big
step technologically. And it's
not clear that
that was done, but we also can't
rule out
that the North Koreans have made
a significant
advancement.
GWEN IFILL: Wendy Sherman, we
talked about
the U.S. reaction. Let's walk
through some
of the other intersectional
reaction, especially
China.
In the past, they have been as
protective
of North Korea as any nation.
Not so today.
WENDY SHERMAN: Right.
Well, today, they said they are
resolutely
opposed to what North Korea has
done. Now
we need some resolute action
from China as
well. It is significant and
useful that the
U.N. Security Council held an
emergency session.
The reports out of that session
are that nobody
objected to further sanctions.
And Ambassador
Power, the U.S. ambassador,
called for more
sanctions.
And many candidates today who
are running
for president have called for
greater action.
And Secretary Clinton, who
certainly understands
what's happening in Asia, has
called for greater
sanctions and to ensure, as I
think we all
feel, that we not allow North
Korea to blackmail
the international community, but
that we take
resolute action to tell them,
this is not
acceptable.
GWEN IFILL: Siegfried Hecker,
let's talk about
resolute action for a moment. A
year ago,
the president signed an
executive order to
freeze assets in North Korea.
Everyone, as Wendy Sherman
pointed out, is
calling for resolute action,
universal condemnation.
What difference does that make
for a rogue
state like North Korea?
SIEGFRIED HECKER: Quite frankly,
I think none,
because we have been through
this at least
since 2003 or so, when North
Korea pulled
out of a nonproliferation
treaty.
And the attempts, not only by
the United States,
but by the international
community, has been,
in essence, to threaten North
Korea, to sanction
North Korea, to isolate North
Korea. And it
simply hasn't worked. I think we
failed to
engage North Korea appropriately
when we had
opportunities in these last 12
or 13 years.
Whatever engagement was there
didn't work.
The bottom line is, over this
time, from 2003,
when they most likely built
their first primitive
device which they tested in
2006, until today,
they have gone from building a
device, 2003,
testing one that didn't work so
well in 2006,
to just now where they had the
fourth test,
the successful test.
And, in the meantime, at the
same time, they
have scaled up their ability to
make more
bombs. And so where we used to
have a problem
of having this country that
could perhaps
build a simple nuclear device,
today, they
appear to have a nuclear
arsenal. That's of
great concern.
And, to me, that means we have
to do something
different than what's been done
over the last
12 years.
GWEN IFILL: Wendy Sherman, we
know that Kim
Jong-un is a tough read. Not
many people have
gotten inside and figured out
what he's really
up to. But if from -- based on
what we know,
if what he was trying to do
today was provoke,
what was that provocation
intended to do?
WENDY SHERMAN: Well, I think
he's -- it's
several things.
First of all, it's really to
bring together
his own country to believe that
he is strong
and powerful. He is still a
young leader.
He's trying to consolidate his
power. He's
done that through a tyrannical
set of actions,
including killing off some of
his closest
advisers, when he thought they
were getting
out of control and he wasn't
being seen as
primary.
So this was a way to bring his
country together,
which we find completely
reprehensible, but,
nonetheless, he's taken that
action. Second,
he's sending a message to the
region and to
the United States that he will
do whatever
he thinks he needs to do to
protect his country.
He will not go down, as other
leaders have
gone down around the world.
I take Sieg's statements, and I
understand
them, the frustration here to
get North Korea
to do something, but to get
action takes a
couple of things. It takes a
leader who is
willing to engage. And North
Korea has not
been willing to engage, though
the United
States and others have made many
entreaties
to them to do so.
And, secondly, I think we have
to get China,
who has really one of the only
relationships
left with North Korea, along
perhaps a little
bit with Russia, to not only
engage, but also
to take tougher action to take
away some of
the goodies that they still
provide to North
Korea.
GWEN IFILL: And, finally,
Siegfried Hecker,
your take on Kim Jong-un and
whether he is
a real threat in this situation.
SIEGFRIED HECKER: So, I like to
be able to
say that I am just a scientist,
and so these
diplomatic matters are certainly
beyond my
own personal reach.
But the thing that seems clear,
just in terms
of the nuclear weapons piece of
this, is that
North Korea looks at these
nuclear weapons
as a deterrent. During all of my
visits and
the discussions with their
Foreign Ministry
and the diplomats, rather than
the technical
people, they talked about their
deterrent.
So the emphasis was always
deterrent, meaning
deterring the United States from
essentially,
you know, going into North
Korea, or, as they
like to say, you know, our
hostile policies.
So, I think we need to
understand exactly
what is the North Korean
security concern,
because without getting over
that concern,
in North Korea, to come to
resolution, it
seems to me -- and, again, not
being a diplomat
-- that the issue is much bigger
than just
the nuclear issue. And so
focusing on the
nuclear issue by itself is not
going to be
able to get us there.
GWEN IFILL: Siegfried Hecker,
former director
of the Los Alamos Laboratory,
and Wendy Sherman,
many former titles, but you were
former undersecretary,
most recently, of political
affairs at the
Department of State.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Thank you both very
much.
WENDY SHERMAN: Thank you.
SIEGFRIED HECKER: Thank you very
much. It's
my pleasure.